NGINX Page (#2407)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/maintain-guides-how-to-setup-a-validator-with-reverse-proxy.md

---
id: maintain-guides-how-to-setup-a-validator-with-reverse-proxy
title: Set Up a Validator with NGINX Reverse Proxy
sidebar_label: Set Up a Validator with NGINX Reverse Proxy
---

> 

Reviewer: I would add a note here with something like the following:

> NOTE: Validators of parachains need to have publicly accessible IP addresses and ports to receive connections from Parachain Collators. Adding a proxy may potentially reduce connectivity and result in lower Era Points or the inability to validate parachain blocks. If using a proxy, it's recommended to keep an eye out on networking metrics.

Author: Added.

This guide assumes that you have already configured your hardware with the appropriate specs. It has same configuration as the
[polkadot validator setup](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-secure-validator).

We will walk you through how to configure a reverse proxy using NGINX in front of your validator node. The

> validator uses the reverse proxy only to talk to the public facing nodes, to protect it from certain types of attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validator uses the reverse proxy to filter traffic, whereby additional adjustments can be made to respond to a DDoS attack.
```

### 1. Firewall configuration

We will configure the firewall with [ufw](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UncomplicatedFirewall). There needs to be three main ports for this setup. 
- An SSH port, commonly ssh/tcp port `22`.
- A proxy port 
- p2p port: must be denied at the firewall level. 

In this example, we will assign the port number `2435` to the proxy port and the port number `30333` to the p2p port. To enable the firewall and the use of the ports, allow SSH access.

> 

Reviewer: Would add a note here something like:

> NOTE: For parachains you will need to allow for both inbound and outbound traffic on the P2P port. Since the proxy port is the public facing port, this will need to have inbound and outbound traffic open, with the normal p2p port closed.

Author: Added.

> ```bash

Reviewer: would also add a deny for 9933 and 9944 (http and ws rpc ports). Validators shouldn't have those ports open to the public.

Author: Updated.

`--public-addr <VALIDATOR_IP>, <PROXY_PORT>` - This flag defines the validator's IP and the proxy port
that all other nodes in the network will connect to.

`--listen-addr <LOCALHOST>, <P2P_PORT>` - This flag defines the p2p port that the polkadot application
will use to connect to the NGINX reverse proxy.

#### P2P Networking

Nodes will use [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/) as the networking layer to establish peers and gossip
messages, but uses NGINX as a load balancer which acts as a *first listener* of the streaming data to help balance the load.

##### public-addr

`public-addr` - a flexible encoding of multiple layers of protocols into a human
readable addressing scheme. In our example, `/ip4/<VALIDATOR_IP>/tcp/<PROXY_PORT>` is a valid `public-addr` that
specifies wanting the network to reach the validator IPv4 address with TCP packets on the pre-defined proxy port.

- `IP_ADDRESS` - the public IP address of the validator.

- `PROXY_PORT` - the port that nodes will send p2p messages over the network and are read by the NGINX reverse proxy.

##### listen-addr

`listen-addr` -  the specification of what port the polkadot application will connect to the reverse proxy.

> In our example, `/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/<P2P_PORT>` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, `/ip4/0.0.0.0/tcp/<P2P_PORT>` 
```

`0.0.0.0` will listen on all interfaces and should be used instead

> specifies that you want to listen to NGINX on the localhost address (`127.0.0.1`), with TCP packets on the pre-defined p2p port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifies that you want to listen to NGINX on the localhost address (`0.0.0.0`, or all interfaces), with TCP packets on the pre-defined p2p port.
```

- `P2P_PORT` - the port that the polkadot application connects to NGINX.

#### Starting the validator with the NGINX proxy

After retrieving the appropriate `IP_ADDRESS`, `PROXY_PORT` and `P2P_PORT` of the validator node, we can start the validator.

Start your validator with the `--validator` flag:

```bash
# Validator Node
polkadot \
  --name My_Validator_Name \
  --validator \
  --public-addr=/ip4/IP_ADDRESS/tcp/2435 \

>   --listen-addr=/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/30333 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --listen-addr=/ip4/0.0.0.0/tcp/30333 \
```
